DAY 21 ASSIGNMENT DONE


1. What is a Constructor?
ANS:
Constructor in java is used to create the instance of the class. Constructors are almost similar to methods except for two things - its name is the same as the class name and it has no return type. Sometimes constructors are also referred to as special methods to initialise an object




2. What is Constructor Chaining?
ANS:
Constructor chaining refers to the ability to call a constructor inside another constructor. You can use a constructor chain either within the same class or even with another one. For the latter, the constructor should be through inheritance from the super class.




3. Can we call a subclass constructor from a superclass constructor?
ANS:
No, we cannot call a subclass constructor from a superclass constructor.


 4. What happens if you keep a return type for a constructor?
ANS:
 The constructor cannot have a return type. It should create and return new object. Hence it would give compilation error.


5. What is No-arg constructor?
ANS:
Here, the constructor does not accept any parameters. Hence, it is known as a no-arg constructor. Notice that we have declared the constructor as private. Once a constructor is declared private , it cannot be accessed from outside the class.


6. How is a No-argument constructor different from the default Constructor?
ANS:
If the programmer writes any constructor in the code, then the compiler doesn't add any constructor. Every default constructor is a 0 argument constructor but every 0 argument constructor is not a default constructor.


7. When do we need Constructor Overloading?
ANS:
As construction overloading enables the creation of the object of a specific class in several ways, it is most commonly used in Java programs based on the requirement of the programmer. With the use of constructor overloading, objects can be initialized with different data types




8. What is Default constructor Explain with an Example.
ANS:
If we do not create any constructor, the Java compiler automatically create a no-arg constructor during the execution of the program. This constructor is called default constructor.
EX:
class Main {


  int a;
  boolean b;


  public static void main(String[] args) {


    // A default constructor is called
    Main obj = new Main();


    System.out.println("Default Value:");
    System.out.println("a = " + obj.a);
    System.out.println("b = " + obj.b);
  }
}


OUTPUT
Default Value:
a = 0
b = false